today on our 2001 ford explorer we'll be
installing the timbren suspension
enhancement system part number tk90160
some spray lubricant this will assist us
and removing it because over time it's
gonna build up rust dust dirt and debris
quick tech tip may be necessary to go
ahead and put a block of wood in between
the axle and the bump stop so that holds
it in position now notice there's a
small nipple on the top of the bump stop
that goes into the frame to stop it from
spinning now we'll go ahead and put our
block of wood in place we're ready to go
ahead and start removing the fastener
now with the fastener removed we'll go
ahead and remove the block of wood and
our bump stop and here you can see the
nipple that protrudes into the frame
we're ready to install the new Aion
rubber spring before we put it in place
let's go ahead and assembly as the
spring is already assembled we'll need
to assemble the hardware and top plate
we've got the new bolt it's provided
with our install kit we'll go through
the center of the ion spring through the
ion spring washer and up through the top
of the ion spring after the bolt passes
through the spring we'll install the top
plate provided with our install kit now
we're ready to go ahead and install it
into the frame once in the frame we'll
install a flat washer and lock nut to
secure it
next we can go ahead and tighten it down
now with everything tightened down we'll
go ahead and repeat the same process on
the driver's side and with both ion
springs installed that'll complete the
installation of our timbren suspension
enhancement system part number tk90160
you